---
author: "Ufuk"
title: "Why I'm quitting tobacco"
date: "2023-04-21"
description: "Smoking & Writing: The twin evils..."
tags: ["smoking", "writing"]
ShowToc: false
---

I find two things about writing particularly strange. First, from its conception to our day, writing has always been intrinsically related to individual's desire to be recognized. I use the term _individual_ liberally, as writing is an act for the constitution of larger political, social, and religious entities from the times immemorial. It is an act of marking one's existence, defining one's territory of interest and inner laws, and such, from the perspective of its constitutive function, there is little difference between writing's different forms. From the most profane to the most holy, writing serves to say "I exist.", nothing more. Thus, the holy books representing "God's words" or legal documents underpinning the state's monopoly of violence or a dude's disgusting love poem for his sweetheart exercise the same familiar function of materializing an existence, announcing it to the world, and expecting acknowledgment. 

I'd like to quickly disband a potential misunderstanding of my above statement, namely that writing is foremost a passive construction of one's ideas of oneself. As the act of writing is now almost universal in its practice and highly democratized thanks to technological advancements, the internet and whatever, one might tend to underestimate or altogether ignore the motivations underlying its exercise. Let me be clear on this: A social media post about what you eat on a Sunday afternoon is just as egotistical as an Egyptian God-King's tombstone. The latter might be designed to see through the ages whereas the former might even be preferred to be forgotten rather quickly, yet, they share a common motivation to constitute and to get recognition. Writing, the quintessential existential exclamation mark, is voiced with the same vociferousness, the same fear of being forgotten and of being nobody, no matter the difference in their effects or in their durability.

Second, writing lacks a clearly defined audience. Put differently, writing's audience is whomever reads it. Even when it is explicitly addressed to a name, and no matter how "intimate" its content is, writing always involves third-persons, gaze of outsiders, the judgment and taste honed by the historicity of the writing as a *communication* medium. When ideas are materialized in letters, letters immediately betray the transience of ideas. Take the example of a personal diary. Things we write in our diaries might involve our most secluded feelings, which we can only dare to *communicate* to ourselves. Yet, when we glance over their dusty pages years later, we cannot help but become overwhelmed by an utter feeling of cringe at the things we had once written about so openly. The reason why reading old diaries sucks is not, of course, the author's foolishness, immaturity, talentlessness etc. It is the mismatch between the author's intention to address a contemporaneous reader, who would have felt and thought the same as the author, and writing's permanency, its inclination to be _for someone abstract_ in the future.

In other words, communication, when done in equal footing, when the initiator and receiver can claim equality and freely exchange roles, has to be immediate. In speech, we have this equality and immediacy. Even in political agitations when a leader talks over to vaguely defined mass, we have concurrent interactions, a ritual of actions and reactions geared towards finding commonality. In writing, however, we have the immense presence of the author, who, irrespective of his/her intentions, dictates the reader what to think and how to read. Because the author is always located in the beginning of a communication, the power imbalance in relation to the reader is persistent. Most importantly, writing's audience is always abstract, whereas speech, even in its most disfigured forms, always refer to concrete people.

Summing up my thoughts, writing is a narcissistic practice par excellence. This is so because (1) it is motivated by a desire to be recognized, which in turn deemed impossible because recognition sought is to made (2) by abstract entities, which is never satisfying.

Despite my hopefully understandable hate for writing, I made you read this shit that I spent hours writing. But, I have a legitimate reason, sort of. I'm quitting smoking.

You see, to quit smoking could be one of the few reasons a person might ever have to be forgiven for succumbing to the urge for writing. 

Smoking to me is a self-destructive act. What I like about smoking is to have the ability and authority to make things worse for myself. Saying "fuck it", (fok it) with every puff is like my ineffective protest against every thing I dislike in life, especially those that look hopeless to me. It is a protest in the most arabesque sense: Through smoking, I make myself hopeless and thus accommodate the hopelessness that I see around me. One might say it is no protest at all, just coping.

The very real possibility to end up adopting the wellbeing ideology and other über-optimistic keywords promoted by the bourgeoisie self irks me. Yet, I came to the point (at least I hope I did) where I need to put the brakes on my self-destructiveness. Despite my incessant pessimism about the world, opportunity to breathe, sleep, and bang better attracts me.

So, writing this seems well-suited to my decision to quit smoking. I want my demonstration of willpower to be seen, to be inscribed somewhere even if it is only to discourage me from lighting another cig. I need to claim some self-love even if in some grandiose and immature ways in order to put an end to my self-destruction.
